# Example REST API for the teamwork

This repository contains an Express application implementing a very simple REST API for a book store. It is used to illustrate the following key technologies:

 - REST API.
 - Express and its middlewares.
 - Testing with Mocha.
 

# Repository organization

The repository is organized in several directories and files:

 - `/app`: contains the code of the express application.
 
    - `app/routes`: contains the routes (API endpoints) for book management.
    - `app/middlewares/validators`: contains the code to validate the routes (validators).
    - `app/controllers`: contains the controllers for the API endpoints.
    - `app/models`: contains the data models (book).
    - `app.js`: main file of the express application.
   
 - `/test`: contains the code to test the application.
    - `test/routes`: contains the code to test the routes.
    - `index.js`: main file of the test.

 - `index.js`: main file of the Node.js application.
 - `.gitignore`: specifies intentionally untracked files that Git should ignore.
 - `Dockerfile`: contains the commands to build docker images.
 - `docker-compose.yml`: configures docker application’s services, networks, volumes and more.
 - `package.json`: metadata file in the node.js project generated by the node.js package manager (npm) that describes dependencies of modules (libraries), scripts, configuration, and other project details.
 - `package-lock.json`: describes the exact tree of models that will be generated in the `node_modules` directory after running the command _npm install_ and is automatically generated when npm modifies the `package.json`.    
 - `README.md`: this file (markdown format).

# Usage

You must follow these steps to start the application in a local machine:

 1. Install the dependencies:
  
    - `npm install`

 2. Run the application in the local machine with the desired configuration:
 
    - `npm start` to run the server in production mode.
    - `npm test` to run the tests.
  